**Abuse in Sex Trafficking**

Violence and assault against women have come into the spotlight recently, with new information coming to light about rape on college campuses, sexual harassment on social media and other places, and Donald Trump’s comments about sexually harassing women during his 2016 campaign. With all of this new information, many young women have mobilized to fight to stop violence against women. Take Back the Night rallies have become popular on many college campuses, as has encouraging college women to report rape and other sexual assaults, and volunteering organizations focused on helping women who are victims of violence. This recent focus on the violent repression of women has also brought to light just how many women are affected by violence committed by men. While all of this new information has brought many new young women into the fight, one facet of violence against women that is sometimes ignored is the violence that often accompanies sex trafficking.

While sex trafficking is often seen as an act of violence against women in and of itself, there is also physical and mental brutality, sexual or otherwise, that affects sex slaves. Because sexual slavery is often addressed as a specific and isolated issue, which it certainly is, it is also important to confront the issue of violence against women that so frequently accompanies sex trafficking. By connecting the violence committed against women and girls in the sex industry to other forms of violence against women, I believe we will be able to address human trafficking better as a whole.
Violence against women who are sex slaves is all too common. In an industry built around the subjugation of women and forcing them to engage in unwanted sexual activity, violence often occurs as a means to force women into submission and to create fear of running away. Sexual slavery, like all other forms of slavery, often entails creating an emotional and physical fear of those in charge, rendering rebellion unconsidered for fear of the consequences. Because women are forced to be sex slaves, violence ensures they fear their pimps and the physical ramifications of running away or going to authorities. There are too many accounts of former sex slaves being beaten into fear by their pimps, punished for not engaging in sex when they are told to, and being raped by men who purchased them. Because it is violence that so often prevents women and girls from getting help, we must understand the physical and emotional abuse sex slaves suffer in order to assist them.

Because sex trafficking is such a hidden industry, and pimps are so hard to catch, it is hard to determine exactly how much violence against women occurs. However, due to the fact that it is an illegal industry, and one based on the exploitation and dehumanization of women, it is easy to imagine that violence against women is by no means a rarity. Most women who go to authorities and escape sexual slavery speak on how commonplace violence was while working for pimps. Women consulted for an article on sex trafficking spoke about the frequency and brutal nature of the violence committed against them, such as beatings, emotional bereavement, and different forms of torture.

Most of the girls consulted in the above article were minors. A majority of sex slaves in America are minors, typically 13–15 years old. The question of whether any sexual activity with a sex slave who is a minor is rape is a question that many lawmakers and advocates for girls’ rights pose. I would imagine that in areas that anyone who forces a minor into prostitution or engages in sexual activity with them is illegal, it would be much easier to legally punish those who exploit them.

One form of violence that is frequently perpetrated against women in sex trafficking aside from beatings is rape and sexual assault. This issue is very difficult to address, largely because of the common perception that sex slaves willingly partake in sexual acts, and that their work means that they can’t be raped because it’s their “job.” However, the fact is that sex slaves are forced to prostitute themselves, which can be seen as rape in and of itself. These women have not consented to engage in sexual acts themselves, but are told to do so. Likewise, it does not take a stretch of imagination to understand that simply because these women engage in sex acts means they always consent to men buying them. If a sex slave feels uncomfortable engaging in intercourse, it is not likely men using her will respect her wishes due to the fact that these women are often seen as property and are regarded as such. The nature of sex trafficking means that women are regarded as objects to be bought and sold rather than autonomous human beings, creating a culture that regards sex slaves as inhuman and means they are treated without respect.

Abuse in sex trafficking is a huge issue, and one that is largely unaddressed. In an age where violence agains women is coming into the spotlight, and with young women rising up to confront this epidemic, abuse and violence in sex trafficking needs to be dealt with by this movement as well. The role that sex trafficking plays in the violent oppression of women must be considered important in the fight against violence against women.
