**Young Women’s Role in Preventing Sex Trafficking**

I believe that young women are a strong and under utilized force in the fight against sex trafficking. Sexual slavery largely affects adolescent girls and young adult women, so we then have a distinctive perspective and special ability to combat sex trafficking. Young women are the key to stopping human trafficking because, if trained correctly, we will be able to spot peers who are victims, reach out to victims on a more personal level than adults or men can, and relate to the struggle of victims in a deeper way. Exploring different ways to address sex trafficking is a great way for us to explore the options we have to stop sex trafficking.

The fight against human trafficking is a difficult one. Like other illegal industries, sex trafficking is hidden, disguised, and widespread. These elements make it difficult for authorities to track down and convict perpetrators; and the widespread nature of human trafficking only makes it harder to stop. Sexual slavery also varies greatly by country, and in the case of America, it greatly varies by state and region. All of these facts mean that people have very different opinions of what successful prevention measures are. We need prevention tactics at federal, state, local, and personal levels in order to address this industry.

At the federal level, the most important preventative law is the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA). This law is important in several ways, three of those reasons being the definition that any commercial sex act performed by a person under 18 is considered human trafficking, physical transportation from one region to another is not in the definition of human trafficking, and people trafficked from countries outside of the U.S can be given a “T-Visa” if they were subject to severe forms of trafficking.

At state and regional levels, prevention laws have subtle differences that make the prosecution of those who exploit sex slaves different by place. Many states define human trafficking and “coercion” differently, have different laws regarding the selling of minors, and have different punishments for those who sell and buy children. One way for us to become involved in the fight against human trafficking is to research our own state laws on the issue, and address shortcomings by contacting state legislators and representatives. Human trafficking tends to be a bipartisan issue, and it can be effective to rally groups to campaign for better laws to prevent human trafficking. Having young women speak out politically on sexual slavery would be a powerful way to demonstrate that it adversely affects us; and, that we possess a unique voice in the fight against sexual slavery.

Unfortunately, reaching out to federal, state, and local government officials is not always successful, and often people don’t get a response. A great way to combat sex trafficking apart from official laws is to make personal efforts to address trafficking. Personal measures to stop human trafficking can often be the most effective way to combat the sex industry. Whether it be starting or contributing to nonprofit organizations who help trafficking victims, noticing the signs that point to possible victims, reporting suspicious behavior to police officers, or giving money to organizations against sex trafficking, these small actions make a difference.

One way young women can strongly affect preventing trafficking is in noticing signs of their peers’s victimization. Because of our closeness and proximity to other young women, we have a special role to play in catching indications that another woman may be trafficked or be in danger of being trafficked. If we train ourselves on the signs of victimization, such as anxiousness or paranoia (especially when law enforcement is mentioned), showing signs of physical and emotional abuse, not clarifying where she goes/lives, and not being able to come and go as she pleases, we can help women in these situations and report suspicious behavior if necessary. Likewise, we can train ourselves to recognize who potential victims are and reach out to them to ensure they are safe. Young women who are homeless or who have run away, whose parent’s are abusive or uninvolved with their lives, and girls who have been abused are much more likely to be singled out by traffickers.

I believe young women should also have a special place in talking with women who were formerly trafficked. As a woman, I am much more comfortable talking to other women, specifically within my age group, about issues I am facing and problems in my life. I believe that women who have been trafficked may potentially be more willing to talk about their experiences with other young women. While I think that professional counselors should definitely communicate with victims, I think that young women can also serve a special function in helping former victims discuss their emotions. Young women tend to face specific types of sexualization, exploitation, and misogyny that will help them identify with and communicate better with victims of sexual slavery.

If Americans decide to take steps to federally and locally combat human trafficking; and, if young women are given a special voice in stopping sexual slavery, I believe much progress will be made in preventing sex trafficking. I think that young women have a unique role to play in prevention, and should use their power and understanding to help victims. When we take notice of the small things, and take even minor actions against slavery, we will begin to make a change in the sex trafficking industry.
